//https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/aws-tutorial/what-is-aws
Cloud computing
: is the delivery of online services (such as servers, databases, software) to users.

Amazon web service(AWS)
: is an online platform that provides scalable and cost-effective cloud computing solutions.
AWS is a broadly adopted cloud platform that offers several on-demand operations like compute power, database storage, content delivery, etc.,
 to help corporates scale and grow.


 Advantages of AWS Services
 1. Security
 2. Global Availability 
 AWS has 80 Availability Zones across 25 geographic regions global data centers. 
 2. Scalability and Flexibility 
 3. Little Investment 


 AWS Services
 Amazon has many services for cloud applications. Let us list down a few key services of the AWS ecosystem and a brief description of how developers use them in their business.

 Amazon has a list of services:
 Compute service
 Storage
 Database
 Networking and delivery of content
 Security tools
 Developer tools
 Management tools

a.Compute service
These services help developers build, deploy, and scale an application in the cloud platform.
i. AWS EC2
It is a web service that allows developers to rent virtual machines and automatically scales the compute 
capacity when required.
It offers various instance types to developers so that they can choose required resources such as 
CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity based on their application requirements.

ii. AWS Lambda
It is a serverless compute service. It is also responsible for executing code for applications.
It helps you execute a program without the hassle of managing servers.
 
b.Storage
AWS provides web data storage service for archiving data. Also, its primary advantage is 
disaster data recovery with high durability.

i.Amazon S3
It is an open cloud-based storage service that is utilized for online data backup.
Amazon S3 provides storage through a web services interface and is designed for developers where 
web-scale computing can be easier for them.

ii.Amazon EBS
It provides a high availability storage volume for persistent data. It is mainly used by Amazon EC2 
instances.
EBS volumes are used explicitly for primary storage such as file storage, databases storage, and
block-level storage.

c.Database
AWS database domain service offers cost-efficient, highly secure, and scalable database instances in the cloud.

i.DynamoDB
It is a flexible NoSQL database service that offers fast and reliable performance with no scalability
issues.
It is a multi-region and durable database with instant built-in security, backup and restores 
features.

ii.RDS
It is a managed distributed relational database cloud service that helps developers to operate and 
scale a database in a simple manner.
We launched it to simplify the setup, operation, and scaling process for developers while accessing 
a relational database.

d.Networking and delivery of content
It offers a highly secure cloud platform and connects your physical network to your private 
VN with a high transfer speed.

i.VPC
It helps a developer to deploy AWS resources, such as Amazon EC2 instances into a private virtual 
cloud.
It gives you control over the complete cloud network environment, including the section of your 
IP address range, subnets, route table configuration, and network gateways.
With this, developers can both IPv4 and IPv6 at a time for your resources in a highly secure 
environment.

ii. Route 53
It is a web service with a highly available Domain Name System (DNS) that helps users to route 
software by translating the text into an IP address.
We launched it for developers to provide them a cost-effective method of routing end users to 
cloud applications.

e.Security, Identity & Compliance
It helps in monitoring a safe environment for your AWS resources by providing limited access to specific users.

i.IAM
Identity Access Management is a framework that helps in maintaining access to AWS services in a secure way.
The service gives you Shared access to your AWS account and Secure access to AWS services that run on the AWS EC2 application. 

ii.KMS
It enables users to create and manage the encryption keys that are used for encrypting data.
The service includes a key generation method where digital sign within your applications becomes easier.

f.Developer tools
It helps a user build, deploy, and run an application source code automatically. It also updates 
the server and instance on the workload.

i.CodeStar
It is a service designed to manage application development in a single place. Here, developers
can quickly develop, build and deploy applications on AWS

ii.Code Build
This removes the hassle of managing physical servers and helps developers build and test code with
continuous scaling.
In simple words, it compiles your code, executes unit tests, and gives output artifacts that are 
ready to deploy.

g.Management tools
Using this service, an individual can optimize costs, minimize risks, and automate all the resources running 
efficiently on the AWS infrastructure.
i. Cloud Watch
It is a monitoring tool for AWS resources and customer applications running on the AWS platform.
The service helps you gather and access all your operational data in the form of logs from a single interface.
ii. Cloud Formation
This service helps you in monitoring all your AWS resources in one place so that you can spend minimum time managing those resources and maximum time developing applications.
It allows developers to manage their cloud infrastructure either in a text file or a template.
